### 1. Intro

**Service** - an abstract way to expose an application running on a set of Pods as a network service (thought it’s an internal LoadBalancer).

https://youtu.be/5lzUpDtmWgM

Using commands as given below, please discover answers to the Quiz.

```shell
kubectl get svc
kubectl get svc -o wide
kubectl get svc --all-namespaces
kubectl describe svc -n <<namespace name>> <<service name>>
kubectl get svc -n <<namespace name>> <<service name>> -o yaml
```

**Endpoint** - a list of backends (pods ip addresses):

```shell
kubectl get ep
kubectl describe ep -n <<namespace name>> <<service name>>
```

### Typical Service Representation:

**Service Key Points:**

- Similar to LoadBalancers, service aggregates pods
- If any new pods had a specific label, the service would know how to send traffic to it.
- Service selector matches a pod label
- Service (usually) has Cluster internal IP (of the same network where Pods are running) and is always avaialable by its name
- Along with its IP, service has other key options:
  - port - TCP Port for incoming connections
  - targetPort - TCP port of destination (backend) pod

**Endpoint**

- endpoint (also ep) is an automatically configured list of backends matched by service selector
- endpoint can have items from outside the cluster (external IPs or domain names)

**Endpoint (ep) is a list of backends**

**Documentation**

- https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/
- https://theithollow.com/2019/02/04/kubernetes-endpoints/

**Quiz**
- Q1 Kubernetes creates service automatically or has them for each application (pod/deployment) by default

    - `False`
 
- Q2 How many Services exist in the cluster (all nsamespaces)?

    - `3`
 
- Q3 What is the type of the default `kubernetes` service?

    - `ClusterIP`

- Q4 What is the targetPort configured on the kubernetes service?

    - `6443`

- Q5 How many labels are configured on the kubernetes service?
    - `2`
- 
- Q6 How many IP addresses (backend pods) does kubernetes endpoint have?
    - `1`


